shipyard hello world blog post (#677)
ipfs/ipfs-blog: src/_blog/shipyard-hello-world.md

---
title: 'IPFS & libp2p Devs Go Independent: Meet Interplanetary Shipyard'

description: 'Check out the new IPFS community calendar where you can participate and contribute to one of the many working groups advancing IPFS.'

> author: Bethany Crystal

Author: ```suggestion
author: Adin Schmahmann

```

> date: 2024-03-29

Author: TODO: Change date. Previews didn't load nicely if I made this in the future.

Reviewer: Change author to Adin?

Author: Done

permalink: '/shipyard-hello-world/'
header_image: '/shipyard-hello-world.png'
tags:
  - 'ipfs'
  - 'libp2p'
  - 'shipyard'
  - 'interplanetary shipyard'
---

> Since its release nearly ten years ago, IPFS has become the connective tissue that powers the infrastructure layer for the decentralized web and connects web2 to web3. Well over 50 million monthly active users access IPFS-based applications, from ENS addresses (~90% of content hashes) to NFTs to blockchains to IoT to enterprise applications. IPFS has always been an open, decentralized, censorship-resistant protocol. But its developers and maintainers were employees of Protocol Labs. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Last November, Protocol Labs, where IPFS was invented and incubated, [announced its commitment to decentralizing project governance](https://protocol.ai/blog/advancing-ipfs-and-libp2p-governance/). In this post, you'll hear from Bethany Crystal of Interplanetary Shipyard, introducing the new team, its roadmap, and what this means for the IPFS community.*

Since its release nearly ten years ago, IPFS has become the connective tissue that powers the infrastructure layer for the decentralized web and connects web2 to web3. Well over 50 million monthly active users access IPFS-based applications, from ENS addresses (~90% of content hashes) to NFTs to blockchains to IoT to enterprise applications. IPFS has always been an open, decentralized, censorship-resistant protocol, and now the project itself is increasingly decentralized too.

```

Author: Switching to my name as the author:

```suggestion
*Last November, Protocol Labs, where IPFS was invented and incubated, [announced its commitment to decentralizing project governance](https://protocol.ai/blog/advancing-ipfs-and-libp2p-governance/). In this post, you'll hear from Adin Schmahmann of Interplanetary Shipyard, introducing the new team, its roadmap, and what this means for the IPFS community.*

Since its release nearly ten years ago, IPFS has become the connective tissue that powers the infrastructure layer for the decentralized web and connects web2 to web3. Well over 50 million monthly active users access IPFS-based applications, from ENS addresses (~90% of content hashes) to NFTs to blockchains to IoT to enterprise applications. IPFS has always been an open, decentralized, censorship-resistant protocol, and now the project itself is increasingly decentralized too.

```

> Now we’re delighted to announce our own “exit to community”: [Interplanetary Shipyard](https://ipshipyard.com/), an **independent collective of many of the most popular implementations in the IPFS and libp2p ecosystem**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we’re delighted to announce [Interplanetary Shipyard](https://ipshipyard.com/), an **independent collective of people maintaining many of the most popular implementations in the IPFS and libp2p ecosystem**. 

```
Just a suggestion but I think it's worth highlighting the talent > the lines of code.

Author: ```suggestion
Now we’re delighted to announce our own "exit to community": [Interplanetary Shipyard](https://ipshipyard.com/), an **independent collective of people maintaining many of the most popular implementations in the IPFS and libp2p ecosystem**. 

```

@mishmosh  WDYT about keeping the "exit to community part". Going to merge as is in the meanwhile

> Many of the core maintainers of IPFS and libp2p implementations are now part of Shipyard, a newly created Delaware-based non-stock entity. Shipyard is laser-focused on supporting users of the open-source projects in the Interplanetary stack. We are committed to building bridges between web2 and web3 through open-source innovation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our founding team includes many longtime maintainers of widely-used IPFS and libp2p implementations and tools. Shipyard is laser-focused on supporting users of the open-source projects in the Interplanetary stack. We are committed to building bridges between web2 and web3 through open-source innovation. We are registered as a Delaware nonstock corporation.

```

- Add some emphasis on experience of team
- Moved Delaware entity to the end of this paragraph
- Can you expand on the "laser-focused on supporting users" and "building bridges through open source innovation"? Maybe get more specific about what this means for the community/users?

Author: ```suggestion
Our founding team includes many longtime maintainers of widely-used IPFS and libp2p implementations and tools. Shipyard is laser-focused on supporting users of the open-source projects in the Interplanetary stack. We are committed to building bridges between web2 and web3 through open-source innovation. We work directly with teams building on IPFS and libp2p, both to troubleshoot and improve current implementations, and also to inform our public goods roadmap. We are registered as a Delaware nonstock corporation.

```

Going with this for now.

* People and expertise
* Applications
* Libraries
* Networks
* Infrastructure

Think of Shipyard as the union of dockworkers who send ships (projects) out onto the ocean of the distributed web, well-built and equipped with all they need to sail. The next era of the internet is still in its infrastructure phase; IPFS has already positioned itself as one of the core infrastructure layers for the next generation of the internet, and these implementations will be working with the foundation to continue to steward the project.

We want the community to inform how we grow and sustain ourselves, and are eager for community input on our roadmap. We believe the builders growing IPFS, libp2p, and ProbeLab will thrive best together, under their own roof. 

So, a few questions might arise next.

**Why now?**

The set of projects leveraging IPFS and libp2p is now so broad and diverse that it exceeds the purview of one company. Open-source projects need to be managed and owned by their community. 

> Consider the precariousness of core IPFS development being tied to a single company, and thus a single funding source. What if that company experiences a crisis? What if that funding source decides to prioritize something different from what the IPFS developers believe is most important? In web2, the model for supporting and promoting open-source projects was to get the largest centralized players to pay their own employees to maintain the tooling. What does that model look like for the next generation of the internet? 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider the precariousness of core IPFS development being tied to a single company, and thus a single funding source. What if that company experiences a change in strategy? What if that funding source decides to prioritize something different from what the IPFS community believes is most important? In web2, the model for supporting and promoting open-source projects was to get the largest centralized players to pay their own employees to maintain the tooling. What does that model look like for the next generation of the internet? 

```

We want to let the community decide. We believe putting control of the IPFS stack in the hands of an independent collective will foster better resiliency, transparency, open-protocol governance, and long-term future health. By **operating independently while collaborating publicly**, we will build alongside other technical teams that rely on this essential infrastructure. 

> **Is this a spinout from Protocol Labs?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: - Good call on roadmap, easy to move.
- We can change "or even token splits" to "or even embedding an IPFS "utility tax" into certain crypto projects"

> Not quite. Better to think of Shipyard as an independent entity in the Protocol Labs Network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

**What’s on deck for Shipyard?**

We have an extensive [initiative roadmap](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap) and are eager to get more input from the developer community. To shout out just a few ideas we’re working on:

> * [Reliable, decentralized, and verified retrieval of CIDs](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/reliable-decentralized-and-trustless-browser-fetching-of-ipfs-content) (content identifiers) in browsers. The idea is to allow web browsers to fetch CIDs in a verifiable and trustless manner without being vulnerable to centralized chokepoints.

Reviewer 2: Would be great to mention DApps WG, latest PRs/ongoing work, and how people can learn more/get involved.

* [IPFS for pioneers](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/ipfs-for-pioneers-enable-building-interoperable-ipfs-systems-using-http-protocols). We aim to enable the building of interoperable IPFS systems using extremely minimal HTTP-based protocols so that building IPFS-compatible tooling in something like Python (that doesn’t have much IPFS or libp2p tooling today) is super easy and appealing.
* [Self-service tooling for debugging IPFS request handling](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/self-service-tooling-for-debugging-ipfs-request-handling). The idea here is that a user can hit a Boxo-based HTTP gateway and if they experience an error, get a link to download an IPFS request trace. They can then use easy tooling locally or centrally hosted to pinpoint the issue.

**Who maintains and funds this work?**

> We're grateful to Protocol Labs, our anchor financial partner for 2024-2025, for its continued support. We’ve also secured significant commitments from other big3 web3 foundations in support of public goods funding to maintain IPFS and libp2p. We’re thankful as well to our early ecosystem supporters and patrons including CoopHive, Pinata, and Fission.

Reviewer 2: What does "big3 web3 foundations" refer to?

> We’re exploring multiple avenues for financial support, and in keeping with our new community collective approach, we’re thinking in public about what those avenues could be: public goods funding, community grants, or even token splits. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’re exploring multiple avenues for financial support, and in keeping with our new community collective approach, we’re thinking in public about what those avenues could be: public goods funding, community grants, commercial services, and more. 

```

Author: ```suggestion
We’re exploring multiple avenues for financial support, and in keeping with our new community collective approach, we’re thinking in public about what those avenues could be: public goods funding, community grants, commercial services, crypto-native funding, and more. 

```

@mishmosh changed the token splits language to something more generic, but that still indicates we'd like to engage with the web3 IPFS community in a way that makes more sense for their projects and models (rather than shoehorning into more traditional ones)

<table style="width: 100%; border-collapse: collapse;">
  <tr style="border-width: thin; border-color: black; text-align: center;">
    <td colspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: black;"><strong>IPFS</strong></td>
    <td style="border-width: thin; border-color: black; text-align: center;"><strong>libp2p</strong></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: black;">
      <p>Boxo</p>
      <p>Rainbow</p>
      <p>Someguy</p>
      <p>ipfs.io</p>
      <p>dweb.link</p>
      <p>trustless-gateway.link</p>
      <p>delegated-ipfs.dev</p>
      <p>Kubo</p>
      <p>Badbits</p>
    </td>
    <td rowspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: black;">
      <p>Amino DHT</p>
      <p>IPFS Companion</p>
      <p>IPFS Measurements</p>
      <p>IPFS Desktop</p>
      <p>libp2p Measurements</p>
      <p>Helia</p>
      <p>service-worker-gateway</p>
      <p>@helia/verified-fetch</p>
      <p>IPFS Cluster <em>(on hold)</em></p>
    </td>
    <td rowspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: black;">
      <p>go-libp2p</p>
      <p>js-libp2p</p>
      <p>rust-libp2p</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr></tr>

> </table>

Reviewer 3: Suggested improvements in https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-blog/pull/678

Author: merged

**Why now?**

The set of projects leveraging IPFS and libp2p is now so broad and diverse that it exceeds the purview of one company. Open-source projects need to be managed and owned by their community. 

Consider the precariousness of core IPFS development being tied to a single company, and thus a single funding source. What if that company experiences a change in strategy? What if that funding source decides to prioritize something different from what the IPFS community believes is most important? In web2, the model for supporting and promoting open-source projects was to get the largest centralized players to pay their own employees to maintain the tooling. What does that model look like for the next generation of the internet? 

We want to let the community decide. We believe putting control of the IPFS stack in the hands of an independent collective will foster better resiliency, transparency, open-protocol governance, and long-term future health. By **operating independently while collaborating publicly**, we will build alongside other technical teams that rely on this essential infrastructure. 

**Who maintains and funds this work?**

> We're grateful to Protocol Labs, our anchor financial partner for 2024-2025, for its continued support. We’ve also secured significant commitments from other notable web3 foundations in support of public goods funding to maintain IPFS and libp2p. We’re thankful as well to our early ecosystem supporters and patrons including CoopHive, Pinata, and Fission.

Reviewer: Change to:

We're grateful to Protocol Labs, our anchor financial partner for 2024-2025, for its continued support. We’re thankful as well to our early ecosystem supporters and patrons including Optimism's RetroPGF grants, Cloudflare, Pinata, Fission, and CoopHive.

Author: ```suggestion
We're grateful to Protocol Labs, our anchor financial partner for 2024-2025, for its continued support. We’re thankful as well to our early ecosystem supporters and patrons including Optimism's RetroPGF grants, Cloudflare, Pinata, Fission, and CoopHive.

```

---
title: 'IPFS & libp2p Devs Go Independent: Meet Interplanetary Shipyard'

description: 'Check out the new IPFS community calendar where you can participate and contribute to one of the many working groups advancing IPFS.'
author: Adin Schmahmann

> date: 2024-03-29

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-04-08

```

Our founding team includes many longtime maintainers of widely-used IPFS and libp2p implementations and tools. Shipyard is laser-focused on supporting users of the open-source projects in the Interplanetary stack. We are committed to building bridges between web2 and web3 through open-source innovation. We work directly with teams building on IPFS and libp2p, both to troubleshoot and improve current implementations, and also to inform our public goods roadmap. We are registered as a Delaware nonstock corporation.

Our current set of implementations maintained by Shipyard include:

  <table style="width: 100%; border-collapse: collapse;">
  <tr style="border-width: thin; border-color: #888; text-align: center;">
    <td colspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: #888;"><strong>IPFS</strong></td>
    <td style="border-width: thin; border-color: #888; text-align: center;"><strong>libp2p</strong></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: #888; padding: .5rem;">
      <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs/boxo/#readme">Boxo</a> <small>(GO SDK)</small></p>

>       <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/#readme">Kubo</a> <small>(Server, Desktop, Brave)</small></p>

Author: @lidel do you think we should link Brave here in case people aren't familiar? e.g.
```suggestion
      <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/#readme">Kubo</a> <small>(Server, Desktop, <a href="https://brave.com/">Brave</a>)</small></p>

```

Reviewer: Don’t think we need to link to Brave

      <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs/someguy#readme">Someguy</a> <small>(Router impl.)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs/helia#readme">Helia</a> <small>(JS SDK)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs/helia-verified-fetch#readme">verified-fetch</a> <small>(Web API for JS)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/service-worker-gateway#readme">Service Worker Gateway</a> <small>(impl. WIP)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://badbits.dwebops.pub/">Bad Bits Denylist</a> <s</p>
    </td>
    <td rowspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: #888; padding: .5rem;">
      <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-companion#readme">IPFS Companion</a> <small>(browser extension)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop#readme">IPFS Desktop</a> <small>(Windows/macOS/Linux)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://ipfscluster.io/">IPFS Cluster</a> <small>(on hold)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#public-ipfs-gateways">ipfs.io</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>

>       <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#public-ipfs-gateways">dweb.link</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>
> 
>       <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#public-ipfs-gateways">trustless-gateway.link</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>

Author: ```suggestion
      <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#public-ipfs-gateways">dweb.link</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#public-ipfs-gateways">trustless-gateway.link</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>

```

>       <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#public-ipfs-gateways">trustless-gateway.link</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>
> 
>       <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#delegated-routing">delegated-ipfs.dev</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>
>       <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#amino-dht-bootstrappers">Amino DHT</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>

Author: ```suggestion
      <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#public-ipfs-gateways">trustless-gateway.link</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#delegated-routing">delegated-ipfs.dev</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>
      <p><a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/public-utilities/#amino-dht-bootstrappers">Amino DHT</a> <small>(public utility)</small></p>
```

<table style="width: 100%; border-collapse: collapse;">
  <tr style="border-width: thin; border-color: black; text-align: center;">
    <td colspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: black;"><strong>IPFS</strong></td>
    <td style="border-width: thin; border-color: black; text-align: center;"><strong>libp2p</strong></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: black;">
      <p>Boxo</p>
      <p>Rainbow</p>
      <p>Someguy</p>
      <p>ipfs.io</p>
      <p>dweb.link</p>
      <p>trustless-gateway.link</p>
      <p>delegated-ipfs.dev</p>
      <p>Kubo</p>
      <p>Badbits</p>
    </td>
    <td rowspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: black;">
      <p>Amino DHT</p>
      <p>IPFS Companion</p>
      <p>IPFS Measurements</p>
      <p>IPFS Desktop</p>
      <p>libp2p Measurements</p>
      <p>Helia</p>
      <p>service-worker-gateway</p>
      <p>@helia/verified-fetch</p>
      <p>IPFS Cluster <em>(on hold)</em></p>
    </td>
    <td rowspan="2" style="border-width: thin; border-color: black;">
      <p>go-libp2p</p>
      <p>js-libp2p</p>
      <p>rust-libp2p</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr></tr>
</table>

> 

Author: Moving the "what's on deck for shipyard" section up here.
```suggestion

We have an extensive [initiative roadmap](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap) and are eager to get more input from the developer community. To shout out just a few ideas we’re working on:

* [Reliable, decentralized, and verified retrieval of CIDs](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/reliable-decentralized-and-trustless-browser-fetching-of-ipfs-content) (content identifiers) in browsers. The idea is to allow web browsers to fetch CIDs in a verifiable and trustless manner without being vulnerable to centralized chokepoints. You can participate and follow along with this work in the [IPFS dApps Working Group](https://lu.ma/ipfs-dapps).
* [IPFS for pioneers](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/ipfs-for-pioneers-enable-building-interoperable-ipfs-systems-using-http-protocols). We aim to enable the building of interoperable IPFS systems using extremely minimal HTTP-based protocols so that building IPFS-compatible tooling in something like Python (that doesn’t have much IPFS or libp2p tooling today) is super easy and appealing.
* [Self-service tooling for debugging IPFS request handling](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/self-service-tooling-for-debugging-ipfs-request-handling). The idea here is that a user can hit a Boxo-based HTTP gateway and if they experience an error, get a link to download an IPFS request trace. They can then use easy tooling locally or centrally hosted to pinpoint the issue.

**About Shipyard**
```

Consider the precariousness of core IPFS development being tied to a single company, and thus a single funding source. What if that company experiences a change in strategy? What if that funding source decides to prioritize something different from what the IPFS community believes is most important? In web2, the model for supporting and promoting open-source projects was to get the largest centralized players to pay their own employees to maintain the tooling. What does that model look like for the next generation of the internet? 

We want to let the community decide. We believe putting control of the IPFS stack in the hands of an independent collective will foster better resiliency, transparency, open-protocol governance, and long-term future health. By **operating independently while collaborating publicly**, we will build alongside other technical teams that rely on this essential infrastructure. 

**Is this a spinout from Protocol Labs?**

Not quite. Better to think of Shipyard as an independent entity in the Protocol Labs Network.

> **What’s on deck for Shipyard?**
> 
> We have an extensive [initiative roadmap](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap) and are eager to get more input from the developer community. To shout out just a few ideas we’re working on:
> 
> * [Reliable, decentralized, and verified retrieval of CIDs](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/reliable-decentralized-and-trustless-browser-fetching-of-ipfs-content) (content identifiers) in browsers. The idea is to allow web browsers to fetch CIDs in a verifiable and trustless manner without being vulnerable to centralized chokepoints.
> * [IPFS for pioneers](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/ipfs-for-pioneers-enable-building-interoperable-ipfs-systems-using-http-protocols). We aim to enable the building of interoperable IPFS systems using extremely minimal HTTP-based protocols so that building IPFS-compatible tooling in something like Python (that doesn’t have much IPFS or libp2p tooling today) is super easy and appealing.
> * [Self-service tooling for debugging IPFS request handling](https://ipshipyard.com/initiative-roadmap/self-service-tooling-for-debugging-ipfs-request-handling). The idea here is that a user can hit a Boxo-based HTTP gateway and if they experience an error, get a link to download an IPFS request trace. They can then use easy tooling locally or centrally hosted to pinpoint the issue.
> 

Author: Moving this up
```suggestion
```

We're grateful to Protocol Labs, our anchor financial partner for 2024-2025, for its continued support. We’ve also secured significant commitments from other big3 web3 foundations in support of public goods funding to maintain IPFS and libp2p. We’re thankful as well to our early ecosystem supporters and patrons including CoopHive, Pinata, and Fission.

We’re exploring multiple avenues for financial support, and in keeping with our new community collective approach, we’re thinking in public about what those avenues could be: public goods funding, community grants, commercial services, crypto-native funding, and more. 

**Our team is raising an additional $3 million in community contributions to sustain our work as technical stewards in 2024**. Here’s how you can support Shipyard: 

* **Support Public Goods Maintenance** \
If you or your project depends upon IPFS or libp2p, we invite you to consider contributing toward the ongoing maintenance of these important protocols as a public good. You can donate directly to IPFS or libp2p through the [Open Internet Foundation](https://openimpact.foundation/).
* **Hire Shipyard for Commercial Services** \

> In addition to public good funding, we are also beginning to support commercial service agreements for our core users, including service tiers, contracted support, and other embedded engineering work. You can check out our [commercial services tiers](https://ipshipyard.com/) or reach out directly if you have a project you’d like to collaborate with us on.

Author: Linking directly to the gitwallet page for commercial services (the link for shipyard is at the top of the post)

```suggestion
In addition to public good funding, we are also beginning to support commercial service agreements for our core users, including service tiers, contracted support, and other embedded engineering work. You can check out our [commercial services tiers](https://ipshipyard.gitwallet.co/) or reach out directly if you have a project you’d like to collaborate with us on.

```

So, a few questions might arise next.

**Why now?**

The set of projects leveraging IPFS and libp2p is now so broad and diverse that it exceeds the purview of one company. Open-source projects need to be managed and owned by their community. 

Consider the precariousness of core IPFS development being tied to a single company, and thus a single funding source. What if that company experiences a change in strategy? What if that funding source decides to prioritize something different from what the IPFS community believes is most important? In web2, the model for supporting and promoting open-source projects was to get the largest centralized players to pay their own employees to maintain the tooling. What does that model look like for the next generation of the internet? 

We want to let the community decide. We believe putting control of the IPFS stack in the hands of an independent collective will foster better resiliency, transparency, open-protocol governance, and long-term future health. By **operating independently while collaborating publicly**, we will build alongside other technical teams that rely on this essential infrastructure. 

> **Is this a spinout from Protocol Labs?**
> 
> Not quite. Better to think of Shipyard as an independent entity in the Protocol Labs Network.
> 

Author: Removing per @mishmosh's suggestion
```suggestion
**Is this a spinout from Protocol Labs?**

Not quite. Better to think of Shipyard as an independent entity in the Protocol Labs Network.

```

We’re exploring multiple avenues for financial support, and in keeping with our new community collective approach, we’re thinking in public about what those avenues could be: public goods funding, community grants, commercial services, crypto-native funding, and more. 

**Our team is raising an additional $3 million in community contributions to sustain our work as technical stewards in 2024**. Here’s how you can support Shipyard: 

* **Support Public Goods Maintenance** \
If you or your project depends upon IPFS or libp2p, we invite you to consider contributing toward the ongoing maintenance of these important protocols as a public good. You can donate directly to IPFS or libp2p through the [Open Internet Foundation](https://openimpact.foundation/).
* **Hire Shipyard for Commercial Services** \
In addition to public good funding, we are also beginning to support commercial service agreements for our core users, including service tiers, contracted support, and other embedded engineering work. You can check out our [commercial services tiers](https://ipshipyard.gitwallet.co/) or reach out directly if you have a project you’d like to collaborate with us on.

> We’re so excited to watch the ecosystem of the Shipyard “docks” flourish with more projects, partnerships, and input from a community that will now have more say than ever in shaping the future of the entire Interplanetary stack.

Author: ```suggestion
We're excited for Shipyard's opportunity to strengthen the IPFS and libp2p ecosystems through community feedback and patronage. If you would like to get more involved we're in the [IPFS](https://docs.ipfs.tech/community/#get-involved) and [libp2p](https://discuss.libp2p.io/) forums, and you can reach us at contact@ipshipyard.com. 
```

So, a few questions might arise next.

**Why now?**

The set of projects leveraging IPFS and libp2p is now so broad and diverse that it exceeds the purview of one company. Open-source projects need to be managed and owned by their community. 

Consider the precariousness of core IPFS development being tied to a single company, and thus a single funding source. What if that company experiences a change in strategy? What if that funding source decides to prioritize something different from what the IPFS community believes is most important? In web2, the model for supporting and promoting open-source projects was to get the largest centralized players to pay their own employees to maintain the tooling. What does that model look like for the next generation of the internet? 

We want to let the community decide. We believe putting control of the IPFS stack in the hands of an independent collective will foster better resiliency, transparency, open-protocol governance, and long-term future health. By **operating independently while collaborating publicly**, we will build alongside other technical teams that rely on this essential infrastructure. 

> **Is this a spinout from Protocol Labs?**
> 
> Not quite. Better to think of Shipyard as an independent entity in the Protocol Labs Network.
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
